[TOC]

# why PoinTtype

One example is represented by simple operations on XYZ data. The most efficient way for SSE-enabled processors, is to store the 3 dimensions as floats, followed by an extra float for padding:

```C++
struct PointXYZ
{
  float x;
  float y;
  float z;
  float padding;
};
```

As an example however, in case an user is looking at compiling PCL on an embedded platform, adding the extra padding can be a waste of memory. Therefore, a simpler PointXYZ structure without the last float could be used instead.

Moreover, if your application requires a PointXYZRGBNormal which contains XYZ 3D data, RGBA information (colors), and surface normals estimated at each point, it is trivial to define a structure with all the above. Since all algorithms in PCL should be templated, there are no other changes required other than your structure definition.

此外，如果您的应用程序需要一个包含 XYZ 3D 数据、RGBA 信息（颜色）和在每个点估计的表面法线的 PointXYZRGBNormal，那么定义具有上述所有内容的结构是很简单的。 由于 PCL 中的所有算法都应该模板化，因此除了结构定义之外不需要进行其他更改。

# Available PoinT types

To cover all possible cases that we could think of, we defined a plethora of point types in PCL. The following might be only a snippet, please see [point_types.hpp](https://github.com/PointCloudLibrary/pcl/blob/master/common/include/pcl/impl/point_types.hpp) for the complete list.

This list is important, because before defining your own custom type, you need to understand why the existing types were created they way they were. In addition, the type that you want, might already be defined for you.

##  PointXYZ - Members: float x, y, z;

This is one of the most used data types, as it represents 3D xyz information only. The 3 floats are padded with an additional float for SSE alignment. The user can either access points[i].data[0] or points[i].x for accessing say, the x coordinate.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
```

## PointXYZI - Members: float x, y, z, intensity;

Simple XYZ + intensity point type. In an ideal world, these 4 components would create a single structure, SSE-aligned. However, because the majority of point operations will either set the last component of the data[4] array (from the xyz union) to 0 or 1 (for transformations), we cannot make intensity a member of the same structure, as its contents will be overwritten. For example, a dot product between two points will set their 4th component to 0, otherwise the dot product doesn’t make sense, etc.

Therefore for SSE-alignment, we pad intensity with 3 extra floats. Inefficient in terms of storage, but good in terms of memory alignment.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  struct
  {
    float intensity;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## PointXYZRGBA - Members: float x, y, z; std::uint32_t rgba;

Similar to PointXYZI, except rgba contains the RGBA information packed into an unsigned 32-bit integer. Thanks to the union declaration, it is also possible to access color channels individually by name.

> The nested union declaration provides yet another way to look at the RGBA data–as a single precision floating point number. This is present for historical reasons and should not be used in new code.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  union
  {
    struct
    {
      std::uint8_t b;
      std::uint8_t g;
      std::uint8_t r;
      std::uint8_t a;
    };
    float rgb;
  };
  std::uint32_t rgba;
};
```

PointXYZRGB - float x, y, z; std::uint32_t rgba;

Same as PointXYZRGBA.

PointXY - float x, y;

Simple 2D x-y point structure.

```C++
struct
{
  float x;
  float y;
};
```

InterestPoint - float x, y, z, strength;

Similar to PointXYZI, except strength contains a measure of the strength of the keypoint.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  struct
  {
    float strength;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## Normal - float normal[3], curvature;

One of the other most used data types, the Normal structure represents the surface normal at a given point, and a measure of curvature (which is obtained in the same call as a relationship between the eigenvalues of a surface patch – see the NormalEstimation class API for more information).

其他最常用的数据类型之一，Normal 结构表示给定点的表面法线，以及曲率的度量（在同一调用中作为表面补丁的特征值之间的关系获得 - 请参阅 NormalEstimation 类 API 想要查询更多的信息）。

Because operation on surface normals are quite common in PCL, we pad the 3 components with a fourth one, in order to be SSE-aligned and computationally efficient. The user can either access points[i].data_n[0] or points[i].normal[0] or points[i].normal_x for accessing say, the first coordinate of the normal vector. Again, curvature cannot be stored in the same structure as it would be overwritten by operations on the normal data.

因为表面法线的操作在 PCL 中很常见，所以我们用第四个填充这 3 个分量，以便 SSE 对齐和计算效率。 用户可以访问 points[i].data_n[0] 或 points[i].normal[0] 或 points[i].normal_x 来访问法向量的第一个坐标。 同样，曲率不能存储在相同的结构中，因为它会被对正常数据的操作覆盖。

```C++
union
{
  float data_n[4];
  float normal[3];
  struct
  {
    float normal_x;
    float normal_y;
    float normal_z;
  };
}
union
{
  struct
  {
    float curvature;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## PointNormal - float x, y, z; float normal[3], curvature;

A point structure that holds XYZ data, together with surface normals and curvatures.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  float data_n[4];
  float normal[3];
  struct
  {
    float normal_x;
    float normal_y;
    float normal_z;
  };
};
union
{
  struct
  {
    float curvature;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## PointXYZRGBNormal - float x, y, z, normal[3], curvature; std::uint32_t rgba;

A point structure that holds XYZ data, and RGBA colors, together with surface normals and curvatures.

> Despite the name, this point type does contain the alpha color channel.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  float data_n[4];
  float normal[3];
  struct
  {
    float normal_x;
    float normal_y;
    float normal_z;
  };
}
union
{
  struct
  {
    union
    {
      union
      {
        struct
        {
          std::uint8_t b;
          std::uint8_t g;
          std::uint8_t r;
          std::uint8_t a;
        };
        float rgb;
      };
      std::uint32_t rgba;
    };
    float curvature;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## PointXYZINormal - float x, y, z, intensity, normal[3], curvature;

A point structure that holds XYZ data, and intensity values, together with surface normals and curvatures.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  float data_n[4];
  float normal[3];
  struct
  {
    float normal_x;
    float normal_y;
    float normal_z;
  };
}
union
{
  struct
  {
    float intensity;
    float curvature;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## PointWithRange - float x, y, z (union with float point[4]), range;

Similar to PointXYZI, except range contains a measure of the distance from the acquisition viewpoint to the point in the world.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  struct
  {
    float range;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## PointWithViewpoint - float x, y, z, vp_x, vp_y, vp_z;

Similar to PointXYZI, except vp_x, vp_y, and vp_z contain the acquisition viewpoint as a 3D point.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  struct
  {
    float vp_x;
    float vp_y;
    float vp_z;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

## MomentInvariants - float j1, j2, j3;

Simple point type holding the 3 moment invariants at a surface patch. See MomentInvariantsEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  float j1, j2, j3;
};
```

## PrincipalRadiiRSD - float r_min, r_max;

Simple point type holding the 2 RSD radii at a surface patch. See RSDEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  float r_min, r_max;
};
```

## Boundary - std::uint8_t boundary_point;

Simple point type holding whether the point is lying on a surface boundary or not. See BoundaryEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  std::uint8_t boundary_point;
};
```

## PrincipalCurvatures - float principal_curvature[3], pc1, pc2;

Simple point type holding the principal curvatures of a given point. See PrincipalCurvaturesEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  union
  {
    float principal_curvature[3];
    struct
    {
      float principal_curvature_x;
      float principal_curvature_y;
      float principal_curvature_z;
    };
  };
  float pc1;
  float pc2;
};
```

## PFHSignature125 - float pfh[125];

Simple point type holding the PFH (Point Feature Histogram) of a given point. See PFHEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  float histogram[125];
};
```

## FPFHSignature33 - float fpfh[33];

Simple point type holding the FPFH (Fast Point Feature Histogram) of a given point. See FPFHEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  float histogram[33];
};
```

## VFHSignature308 - float vfh[308];

Simple point type holding the VFH (Viewpoint Feature Histogram) of a given point. See VFHEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  float histogram[308];
};
```

## Narf36 - float x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw; float descriptor[36];

Simple point type holding the NARF (Normally Aligned Radius Feature) of a given point. See NARFEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  float x, y, z, roll, pitch, yaw;
  float descriptor[36];
};
```

## BorderDescription - int x, y; BorderTraits traits;

Simple point type holding the border type of a given point. See BorderEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  int x, y;
  BorderTraits traits;
};
```

## IntensityGradient - float gradient[3];

Simple point type holding the intensity gradient of a given point. See IntensityGradientEstimation for more information.

```C++
struct
{
  union
  {
    float gradient[3];
    struct
    {
      float gradient_x;
      float gradient_y;
      float gradient_z;
    };
  };
};
```

## Histogram - float histogram[N];

> General purpose n-D histogram placeholder.

```C++
template <int N>
struct Histogram
{
  float histogram[N];
};
```

## PointWithScale - float x, y, z, scale;

Similar to PointXYZI, except scale contains the scale at which a certain point was considered for a geometric operation (e.g. the radius of the sphere for its nearest neighbors computation, the window size, etc).

```C++
struct
{
  union
  {
    float data[4];
    struct
    {
      float x;
      float y;
      float z;
    };
  };
  float scale;
};
```

## PointSurfel - float x, y, z, normal[3], rgba, radius, confidence, curvature;

A complex point type containing XYZ data, surface normals, together with RGB information, scale, confidence, and surface curvature.

```C++
union
{
  float data[4];
  struct
  {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
  };
};
union
{
  float data_n[4];
  float normal[3];
  struct
  {
    float normal_x;
    float normal_y;
    float normal_z;
  };
};
union
{
  struct
  {
    std::uint32_t rgba;
    float radius;
    float confidence;
    float curvature;
  };
  float data_c[4];
};
```

# Exposed Point Types

Because of its large size, and because it’s a template library, including many PCL algorithms in one source file can slow down the compilation process. At the time of writing this document, most C++ compilers still haven’t been properly optimized to deal with large sets of templated files, especially when optimizations (-O2 or -O3) are involved.

由于它的体积很大，而且因为它是一个模板库，在一个源文件中包含许多 PCL 算法会减慢编译过程。 在撰写本文档时，大多数 C++ 编译器仍未适当优化以处理大量模板文件，尤其是在涉及优化（-O2 或 -O3）时。

To speed up user code that includes and links against PCL, we are using *explicit template instantiations*, by including all possible combinations in which all algorithms could be called using the already defined point types from PCL. This means that once PCL is compiled as a library, any user code will not require to compile templated code, thus speeding up compile time. The trick involves separating the templated implementations from the headers which forward declare our classes and methods, and resolving at link time. Here’s a fictitious example:

为了加速包含和链接 PCL 的用户代码，我们使用显式模板实例化，通过包含所有可能的组合，其中所有算法都可以使用 PCL 中已经定义的点类型调用。 这意味着一旦 PCL 被编译为库，任何用户代码都不需要编译模板代码，从而加快了编译时间。 诀窍涉及将模板化实现与前向声明我们的类和方法的标头分开，并在链接时解析。 这是一个虚构的例子：

```C++
// foo.h

#ifndef PCL_FOO_
#define PCL_FOO_

template <typename PointT>
class Foo
{
  public:
    void
    compute (const pcl::PointCloud<PointT> &input,
             pcl::PointCloud<PointT> &output);
}

#endif // PCL_FOO_
```

The above defines the header file which is usually included by all user code. As we can see, we’re defining methods and classes, but we’re not implementing anything yet.

```C++
// impl/foo.hpp

#ifndef PCL_IMPL_FOO_
#define PCL_IMPL_FOO_

#include "foo.h"

template <typename PointT> void
Foo::compute (const pcl::PointCloud<PointT> &input,
              pcl::PointCloud<PointT> &output)
{
  output = input;
}

#endif // PCL_IMPL_FOO_
```

The above defines the actual template implementation of the method Foo::compute. This should normally be hidden from user code.

```C++
// foo.cpp

#include "pcl/point_types.h"
#include "pcl/impl/instantiate.hpp"
#include "foo.h"
#include "impl/foo.hpp"

// Instantiations of specific point types
PCL_INSTANTIATE(Foo, PCL_XYZ_POINT_TYPES));
```

And finally, the above shows the way the explicit instantiations are done in PCL. The macro PCL_INSTANTIATE does nothing else but go over a given list of types and creates an explicit instantiation for each. From pcl/include/pcl/impl/instantiate.hpp:

最后，上面显示了在 PCL 中进行显式实例化的方式。 宏 PCL_INSTANTIATE 除了遍历给定的类型列表并为每个类型创建一个显式实例化之外什么都不做。 从 pcl/include/pcl/impl/instantiate.hpp：

```C++
// PCL_INSTANTIATE: call to instantiate template TEMPLATE for all
// POINT_TYPES

#define PCL_INSTANTIATE_IMPL(r, TEMPLATE, POINT_TYPE) \
  BOOST_PP_CAT(PCL_INSTANTIATE_, TEMPLATE)(POINT_TYPE)

#define PCL_INSTANTIATE(TEMPLATE, POINT_TYPES)        \
  BOOST_PP_SEQ_FOR_EACH(PCL_INSTANTIATE_IMPL, TEMPLATE, POINT_TYPES);
```

Where PCL_XYZ_POINT_TYPES is (from pcl/include/pcl/impl/point_types.hpp):

```C++
// Define all point types that include XYZ data
#define PCL_XYZ_POINT_TYPES   \
  (pcl::PointXYZ)             \
  (pcl::PointXYZI)            \
  (pcl::PointXYZRGBA)         \
  (pcl::PointXYZRGB)          \
  (pcl::InterestPoint)        \
  (pcl::PointNormal)          \
  (pcl::PointXYZRGBNormal)    \
  (pcl::PointXYZINormal)      \
  (pcl::PointWithRange)       \
  (pcl::PointWithViewpoint)   \
  (pcl::PointWithScale)
```

Basically, if you only want to explicitly instantiate Foo for pcl::PointXYZ, you don’t need to use the macro, as something as simple as the following would do:

```C++
// foo.cpp

#include "pcl/point_types.h"
#include "pcl/impl/instantiate.hpp"
#include "foo.h"
#include "impl/foo.hpp"

template class Foo<pcl::PointXYZ>;
```

# Add a new PoinTtype

To add a new point type, you first have to define it. For example:

```C++
struct MyPointType
{
  float test;
};
```

Then, you need to make sure your code includes the template header implementation of the specific class/algorithm in PCL that you want your new point type MyPointType to work with. For example, say you want to use pcl::PassThrough. All you would have to do is:

然后，您需要确保您的代码包含您希望新点类型 MyPointType 使用的 PCL 中特定类/算法的模板头实现。 例如，假设您想使用 pcl::PassThrough。 您所要做的就是：

```C++
#define PCL_NO_PRECOMPILE
#include <pcl/filters/passthrough.h>
#include <pcl/filters/impl/passthrough.hpp>

// the rest of the code goes here
```

> Starting with PCL-1.7 you need to define PCL_NO_PRECOMPILE before you include any PCL headers to include the templated algorithms as well.
>
> 从 PCL-1.7 开始，您需要在包含任何 PCL 标头之前定义 PCL_NO_PRECOMPILE 以包含模板化算法。

# Example

The following code snippet example creates a new point type that contains XYZ data (SSE padded), together with a test float.

```C++
#define PCL_NO_PRECOMPILE
#include <pcl/memory.h>
#include <pcl/pcl_macros.h>
#include <pcl/point_types.h>
#include <pcl/point_cloud.h>
#include <pcl/io/pcd_io.h>

struct EIGEN_ALIGN16 MyPointType    // enforce SSE padding for correct memory alignment
{
  PCL_ADD_POINT4D;                  // preferred way of adding a XYZ+padding
  float test;
  PCL_MAKE_ALIGNED_OPERATOR_NEW     // make sure our new allocators are aligned
};

POINT_CLOUD_REGISTER_POINT_STRUCT (MyPointType,           // here we assume a XYZ + "test" (as fields)
                                   (float, x, x)
                                   (float, y, y)
                                   (float, z, z)
                                   (float, test, test)
)


int
main (int argc, char** argv)
{
  pcl::PointCloud<MyPointType> cloud;
  cloud.resize (2);
  cloud.width = 2;
  cloud.height = 1;

  cloud[0].test = 1;
  cloud[1].test = 2;
  cloud[0].x = cloud[0].y = cloud[0].z = 0;
  cloud[1].x = cloud[1].y = cloud[1].z = 3;

  pcl::io::savePCDFile ("test.pcd", cloud);
}
```




